Thank you so much for that introduction, Hadley. It is such a pleasure to be here. Max and
I are really excited to be talking to you today about machine learning and software
for machine learning. This talk, the topic is not so much going to be about the math
of statistical modeling or new methods for machine learning. What we want to talk to
you here today about is applied machine learning, how you as a modeling practitioner get on
that road, that road from model development through to model deployment. As we're here
together and we talk about being this road that we are on, we think this trip down this
road is going to be better if we all go together. So we would encourage you to have Slido up
on your phone with the event code R keynote. And we're going to be using some polls during
this talk for us in this room and people who are watching from afar to be able to share
their own experiences, opinions, and perspectives. So what we're going to be talking about today
is the software that we build for machine learning, and that is tidymodels. So you can
think of tidymodels as a meta package that helps you install and manage other packages
that are used for modeling and machine learning in R. These packages work together, but each
have a specific focus. It works much the same way that the tidyverse does. So if you
have ever typed library tidyverse and then used ggplot2 for data visualization, dplyr
for data manipulation, you can think about tidymodels as working in the same way. You
type library tidymodels, and then you have access to these different packages that have
a focus purpose. So yardstick, for example, is a package that is used to measure model
performance. Tune, perhaps unsurprisingly, is a package for hyperparameter tuning. So
this is a great way to think about tidymodels, that it's an R package that gives you access
to all these kinds of functions that work together. It's also right to be thinking about
tidymodels as a unified framework for modeling in R. The ecosystem for modeling in R is one
of our, like, big strengths. It is a reason why people choose to use R. At the same time,
it really presents a challenge, because the interface to all these different kinds of
models are very heterogeneous. If you have set up a model analysis using one kind of
model, the moving over to a different type of model often involves starting over from
scratch with your whole approach. Tidymodels provides a unified interface to a vast array
of modeling approaches, feature engineering approaches, and encourages good statistical
practice via its design. Now, some of you are sitting out there, and
you're thinking, wait a minute. R already has several of these. In fact, that person
standing up there next to Julia talking right now is one of the people who has built one
already. So, Max, what's going on? Why yet another modeling framework for R?
Why would Max do this, right? So I wrote a package a while back called Carrot, and it's
another similar modeling framework. And it was in 2005, which, many of you know, if you
developed packages back then, were a different time. There were no namespaces in R, for example,
and it was lacking a lot of the things we have now. I was also kind of doing it in my
spare time, and it wasn't really engineered in a way that we could sort of port it over
to new and better interfaces and extend it really well. So, you know, learning more as
I've gone on about software engineering, I think if I'd known those things back then,
I would have done some things different under the hood. So it's not really something that
is really extendable at this point. But maybe more importantly, it's really not something
that has a very, it's not a bad interface, but it's a very 2005 interface where you have
like one function that does just about everything and has like 30 options to it. So we were
thinking about doing more and more with Carrot. It would be really difficult because, you
know, if we add more types of resampling or more preprocessors or this or that, then you
have a function that has like maybe 100 or so options, which is not a good design. And
so since 2005, I think we've not only learned a lot more about how to write a good R package,
but we've learned a lot more about how people interact with our software a lot more. And
then, you know, as time goes on, you see things that are happening in ggplot, even just plier
and then dplyr and things like that. So I think we've learned, like as a community,
a lot more about what are good ways of writing interfaces to packages. And then as I started
to think about that, I started to think about this in the context of modeling, and it seemed
really like it would make sense to have more of like a tidy, modern interface to modeling.
And so that's really the reason to build like a whole new sort of stack from the beginning
or from the bottom up, because really what was old wasn't engineered well enough to extend
and also just its whole view of the world was not really very modern. So that's why
we're going to do something different. So a lot of times we want to introduce software
and talk about, let's say, our philosophy and why we do things. A lot of times we want
to start off with a data set that we can use to illustrate things. So here's a data set
some of you have seen. It's Spotify data. So each row in this data frame is a track
or a song. We might want to do some modeling on this. This was in a Slice competition.
The outcome is the popularity column right there. That's a numeric. So we want to try
to predict that with the other columns that are in this data set. Other interesting features,
there's an artist feature. And as you might imagine, there are quite a large number of
artists in the Spotify catalog. So we might think about ways we could deal with that when
we go to do modeling. There's a date field. And we might not want to put date directly
into a model. We might be better off by deriving features from it, like an indicator for month
or year or any seasonality or any sort of like date-based features instead of using
the original date value. And then we sort of have like this monster of a column over
here, this character. And it's really like a multiple choice type field sort of in a
delimited format. And what we'd like to do is we think that maybe genres are probably
important to predict popularity. So we'd have to deal with this data somehow. We'd have
to find all the genres that are in the data, figure out how to encode them into our model
matrix or the data we hand off to the model in a way that we could make that work. And
so there's this sort of like idea that we have of like what our modeling script is going
to look like. And, you know, when we read books and we see websites and blogs and things
like that, I think we're always led to believe that there's like this perfect data set that
we're handed by our associates. And there's like this single call to a modeling function.
It's really clean and nice. And then you're going to make predictions. And it's just like
a single line. And you're fine. It's no big deal. But the reality is more like this. It's
like a Franken script. So, you know, back when I used to do modeling, you know, I had
a lot of scripts that I like to handle multiple choice values that I'd use across different
projects and then different jobs and things like that. So I think this is more the reality
of how most of our modeling scripts look like. And a lot of this is about the data pre-processing.
So, you know, at the top there, like we might use something like a technique called effect
encoding to handle the large number of artists. That requires some statistical estimation
of the effect of each artist. You might do things like convert your, you know, all of
us have like LuberDate commands, right? That use like, you know, W-Day and all that to
make date features that we then put in our model. There's code there to parse the multiple
choice field. And then at some point we have way too many features. We might think about
doing some feature selection. And so there's this like big script that we have to sort
of do before we get to that actual one line of modeling. So this is the reality of things.
And it's not great. I mean, it's not something if you do this for a living, you wouldn't
have to deal with every time you get a new data set. Now, we'll come back to that slide
and we'll also come back to this slide a couple times. And the point we want to make with
this slide is that we're doing, even before we get to the model, we're doing a lot of
estimation and a lot of sort of like quasi-modeling work. So there are things here that we're
estimating from a statistical standpoint. And also to say that when we go to predict
new data, we have to apply all those same transformations to data we might get six months
from now to make a prediction. So a good chunk of that sort of script on the last slide has
to carry over to your other prediction script. And you have to keep using it. So it's a bit
of a mess. And that's, as somebody who did this for a living, like this is a great problem
to solve. And I think it's probably pretty solvable.
I really love this visualization of what you think your script is going to look like and
how it actually ends up turning out. It aligns so much with my practical experience. And
that's why we want to talk to you here about why Tidy Models has designed the way it is
and how it can support more ergonomic approaches to modeling. By ergonomic, what we mean here,
this is really about syntax, about how expressive you can be in the code that you write, how
fluent you are, and how the syntax that you write helps you get your work done.
We also want to talk about how Tidy Models will make you more effective. What we mean
by effective here is that it allows you, as a practical modeling practitioner, to have
access to a wide swath of different kinds of approaches, that it enables you to do many
different kinds of things. And last, we want to talk to you about how
Tidy Models keeps you safe. The process of machine learning has many pitfalls or potholes
in the road on the way, if you will, and what Tidy Models is designed to help you
avoid those pitfalls, those potholes. So Max, let's start with talking about being
more ergonomic. How do you think about being ergonomic when it comes to modeling?
So a lot of times I think about physical ergonomics. When I work in diagnostics, we have people
come in with clinicians, and they would interact with the diagnostic machines we had, and we'd
watch them and see, just as they did their work, what were things they did over and over
again or they might get frustrated with. And there's a lot of that in the syntax, the
way we design syntax for our functions. But in particular in machine learning, there's
an extra layer of things that we have to think about, because there's a high amount of cognitive
load for machine learning. So when you go to do a model for the first
time, or if you're, let's say, taking a workshop to learn about machine learning, before you
can even get to your first model fit, there's all this stuff that we have to throw at you.
We have to talk about overfitting, and data splitting, and training and test sets. And
there's a lot of jargon and a lot of things. It's like, you do this, and then this, and
then this, and then a day or two later, maybe you're fitting your first model.
And so what we want to do is we want to simplify this process, maybe in ways you don't even
see in terms of the syntax. So we want to take this complexity and reduce it down a
little bit. We don't want to stop you from doing really sophisticated things and having
access to the functions and the nitty gritty bits. But we do want to give you really good
APIs that, for like 80% of the work, the syntax should be pretty high level and consumable
by just about anybody. So one aspect of machine learning and really complicated or sophisticated
statistical models is we have to think about what our data are and how we're going to use
them. So we're going to do our first Slido poll. So go ahead to slido.com if you haven't
already. And the event code is our keynote. And so what we want to talk about is the types
of roles you would have when you're building models. And so this is multiple choice. So
like A and B are the things that we probably think about normally, predictors and outcomes.
But you know, there are more sophisticated methods you might use, like with case weights,
like frequency weights or importance weights or survey weights. In some cases, you might
be modeling and you have like stratification variables. Have you ever used those? Things
like censoring indicators. So Hannah Frick will be talking about our code or our package
for survival analysis, if you've ever used that, like choose this on the quiz. And then
there's some old school things like offsets for Poisson data and things like that. So
the point is, like, you know, we're normally thinking about things in a pretty simplistic
way. But once we get more and more sophisticated in the types of models we want to fit and
the types of problems that we have, it actually gets more complex. And we want to make sure
that complexity for you doesn't get overwhelming as we work with tiny models. So let's look
at recipes for a minute. So we'll use that as an example. So what recipes are is they're
kind of a combination of like the R formula method that you see in modeling functions.
Sort of combined with like a dplyr sort of approach where you're going to be basically
piping in operations that you want to do to your data before you get it to the model.
So in the first line there, we load the tiny models package, which again loads the core
tiny models packages plus some tiny burst packages. And when you start modeling, a lot
of things that we typically do is we do an initial split of our data into testing and
training set. So that second line is just taking our data set that's in a Spotify data
frame and then converting that to an object that has all the indicators for, you know,
row 7 goes in training, row 10 goes in testing and so on. And so when you want to access
the training set, if you look at the right-hand side of the third line, you'll see that we
can run a function called training on that split object and that will return the data
frame that corresponds to the training set. So in that first line, what we're doing is
we're starting a recipe. And there's a formula method there. It says popularity to the dot.
The left-hand side says popularity is an outcome. That's its role in the analysis. And the dot
means everything else that's in that data frame besides popularity should be by default
considered to be a predictor. Now, you can have a lot of different roles in recipes.
You can make up roles for whatever you want. But right now at this point, all the recipe
does is it sort of catalogs the data, what's in the data frame, is it numeric, is it date,
is it categorical, that sort of thing. And then it assigns it like a basic role for the
analysis. So what we can do then is as we want to do operations on our data to prepare
it for modeling, we can sort of pipe in new steps, new functions that represent data processing
steps in our recipe. So let's say we're going to use a model like a neural network or a
nearest neighbor model where we have to make sure that our predictors are all in the same
units. And one common way of doing that is centering and scaling your data. So a step
function we have for that is called StepNormalize. And after StepNormalize, you can use any sort
of like dplyr selectors like you would in the dplyr select function to say which variable
should be affected by this. You can use contains and starts with or you can just list the actual
variables like unquoted. But we know from the modeling standpoint, when we make choices
about these things, we're thinking about what type of role the variable is and what its
type is. You wouldn't go and try to center and scale like categorical data. So what we've
done is we've given recipes a lot of extra dplyr selectors to let you choose the model-related
context in which you want to use variables. So you see that all numeric predictors and
it's doing what you think. It's going to select anything at that point that exists in the
recipe that is numeric and has a role of predictor. So when we think about the complexity of how
we work with and handle data, we're adding a lot of like bells and whistles that are
like quite literal that will make your use of recipes and more complicated functions go
a lot easier. So when we go back to our, what I keep calling the Franken-script, you
know, we have all these things that we wanted to do to our data before we give it to the
model. And it's kind of like I said, a big mess of scripts. You know, parts of these
scripts have probably never been like unit tested and things like that. It's just stuff
that you've had along for the ride for, you know, a few years. And so we can convert that
into a recipe. So in that yellow box, you see a series of steps and they do all the
things that we talked about doing. You might use the step date to take the date field that's
in there, convert that to new features for like date and year and things like that. The
step after that is the step that we have that is good for parsing multiple choice columns
that are text. So we get all the genres, make all the indicator variables for them, which
is quite a lot. But, you know, at the end of that, you might think you have too many
variables to put in your model. So you might want to do some sort of unsupervised feature
filter to get rid of redundant predictors. You might have like two genres that kind of
do the same thing. They're almost identical. And so the step below that, step core, is
one that can actually remove predictors in case their collinearity or their pairwise
correlations are too high. So all these things you can put into a single object, you can
save that object, you can carry it around. It's not in a bunch of scripts. It's been
unit tested and has a lot of features in it. So we want to simplify that part of the process.
So the last three lines on the yellow block, we do something like we create what's called
a workflow object. And that's a situation where you want to take a complicated preprocessor
like a recipe and bind it together to whatever type of model that you want to use. And in
this case, we're going to use a machine learning model called Cubist. It's like a very sophisticated
rule-based model. So in that workflow call, I'm binding together my data processing recipe,
and I'm saying we're going to use this with Cubist. And then there's a simple fit function
we use after that, and that does all the preprocessing, all the estimation that happens during preprocessing
for this recipe, hands the data off to Cubist, it runs all its model, and it's all sitting
in one object that you can save or deploy, spoiler alert, and do things with. And so
that last blue block is that one line for predict that we'd like to be able to do. And
it does all the same things for your new data. So we want to try to simplify this process
as much as possible. I mean, that recipe is not terribly simple, but it's also a very
like predictable, tested, reliable way to encapsulate your preprocessing. So, you know,
when we think about ergonomics, that's the kind of thing we're talking about. We want
to do like potentially very simple or potentially very sophisticated things with a really nice
API that we think you'll enjoy working with. However, there maybe are parts of the modeling
development process that maybe aren't so ergonomics or anything you would like to mention about
that, Julie?
In my experience and talking with folks about their modeling, one of the parts of the whole
modeling analysis that has been the least ergonomic, that has involved the most pain,
is the process of getting your model off your machine. You know, you would spend time training,
tuning, developing a beautiful, accurate, appropriate model, and then when it's time
to deploy that model, to put that model into production, there's been a real lack of tools
for people who are excellent model developers to be able to take that model and get it off
where it needs to go. Let's do another poll here together, and let's take this time to
reflect a little bit on what your experience has been like. If you have deployed a model
to production, think about what has gone well, what have been the pain points, whether
that's the code that you needed to write that was awkward, or the collaboration between
you and software engineers or IT folks in your organization. If you haven't deployed
a model to production, reflect on why that is. Is that because it really isn't part of
your job, like you don't need to in your organization, or is it because there have been
barriers? Maybe you didn't know how, or maybe it was difficult to collaborate within your
organization to get your model where it needs to go. Maybe some of you are sitting here and
you're like, what does that even mean, the word production? That's a great question, because
there isn't some industry standard definition for what production means. I like to use the
definition or the idea that putting a model into production is taking your trained model,
getting it out of the computational environment where you trained it, and putting it somewhere
where it is useful to a wider group of people. So by that definition, taking a model and
putting it in a shiny app and letting people interact to get predictions, we can say that's
production. The industry standard these days for putting models into production for model
deployment is to create restful APIs so that you can scale your API, you can have it as a
microservice, and we have this convenient way to take a model that you have trained and put it in
a computational environment where it's accessible to anyone in your organization who needs it.
I've been working on a new framework for model deployment and other MLOps tasks called vetiver.
So if you are into perfumery or fancy candles like I am, you may have seen this word,
this word vetiver. So vetiver is a stabilizing ingredient in perfume. It takes the more volatile
fragrances and it stabilizes them. So in this metaphor, your model is this more volatile thing.
You have used different hyperparameters, you have used different data, and vetiver helps you
stabilize it so you can version it, deploy it, and monitor it. Let's walk through that a little
briefly. So any modeling process starts with you collecting data, having access to some kind of
data. The first thing you need to do is to understand, clean, you need to engage in the
process of exploratory data analysis. There are great tools in Python and R for you to
approach those tasks. Next, you want to train your model. You want to train, tune, evaluate,
and again, there are amazing open source tools like what we are talking about to be able to
approach those kinds of tasks. So far, at this point, that becomes less true as we move around
this cycle. Once your model is trained, you need to have a reliable scheme to version that model
so that you can know which version of my model was used over which time with which data. Once your
model is versioned, you need to deploy it. And after it's deployed, your job is not done. You
need to also monitor your model. You need to measure regularly the statistical characteristics
of how your model is performing so that you can make adjustments, decide to retrain, head down
that path. So, the tasks on the right side of this diagram are ones that there are great open
source tools for. The tasks on the left side are ones where that has not been true, and this is
where Vetiver sits. So, Vetiver is a framework for versioning, deploying, and monitoring your model.
Now, you can probably guess from this slide that Vetiver is not just for tidy models. It supports
many kinds of models in R, and Vetiver is not just for R. Vetiver was designed from the beginning
to have feature parity between R and Python. You can use the tools that you want to use to
understand and clean your data, to train your model, and then Vetiver can support these ML
ops tasks for both Python and R. If you want to learn more about what ML ops is and how Vetiver
works, specifically with a Python flavor, I invite you to come to the talk of my coworker, Isabel
Zimmerman, which is in the next session about ML ops and Vetiver. While you're here, though, I'll
just show you what this looks like in R a little bit. So, let's say I trained that model that Max
talked about, and now it's time to deploy it. The first step is to create a deployable model
object. This collects all the information that we need to be able to move this model from where I
trained it over to a new computational environment where I can make predictions. This information
includes the types and number and names of the predictors, the original predictors. This includes
also the packages and package versions, the specific software that is needed to be installed
over in that other place to be able to make predictions. Once we have that deployable model
object, the process of spinning up an API is quite ergonomic. This was our goal here. So, on the R
side, we used the plumber package, and once you have a plumber router initialized, it is literally
just one line of code to spin up your model-aware API that's ready to serve predictions at an
endpoint. So, this is what we mean by ergonomic. We want to let you be expressive, to let you be
fluent, to let you get your job done in this way. Now, let's move on to our second point, which is
how tidy models makes you more effective. Max, when we think about this, like being effective,
what are some of the things that come to mind for you? So, you know, back when I used to do
modeling for a living, I feel like I was most effective when somebody brought some data to me,
like DeNovo, like a new project, and I was able to give them a predictive model back that really,
like, met or exceeded what they were interested in or what they needed for the problem and not
take, let's say, like months to be able to do that. So, for me, effective is, you know, being
able to produce a performant model for, you know, whatever the context is or whatever the requirements
are for the project and do that pretty efficiently. So, you know, what we'll talk about in a minute
are some sort of, like, advanced tools that we can give you to help do that. Some are about
performance, some are about efficiency. A big part of building a machine learning model is model
tuning, which we mentioned earlier, where you have these hyperparameters that you can't directly
estimate from the data and you need to find a way to tune them. So, another poll here, have you
ever tuned a model? So, for example, if you have a neural network and you want to figure out how
many hidden units or hidden layers you should have, you need to, you know, do some sort of methodology
to figure out what good values are for those tuning parameters. So, have you never done that?
Yes, and I don't want to ever do the Dan sort of situation. Maybe you did it and it worked well
or you do it all the time and it was easy or you're a pro. So, we definitely want to get feedback from
you. We don't get the feedback from the side of polls as we do them, but honestly, for this and
the next one, I'm kind of dying to see what your responses are. So, go ahead and let us know what
you think about that. So, just as an example of some techniques to talk about effectiveness,
you know, there's a lot of things that aren't, like, bleeding edge, but they're relatively
cutting edge and might be coming from different parts of literature. Some things we include in
tiny models are from the deep learning literature. There's actually some interesting things we're
doing from the computational chemistry literature that we're using for other types of data or any
type of data. Some examples of that would be feature embedding methods, and these are just,
like, really fancy machine learning methods for dimensionality reduction. So, UMAP and ISOMAP,
like multi-dimensional scaling, are pretty powerful and interesting methods, and we'd like
you to be able to use them for any data and use them with any model. So, we want to enable you
to use those pretty easily. The effect encoding is the type of methodology you might use, like,
with the artist field in the Spotify data, where you have a large number of values. You need to
find an efficient and practical way of doing that. You know, that's not a terribly sophisticated
method, but if you were doing that before, you would have had to write a bunch of, like, other
stuff in your script to do that before and after modeling. And we'll talk about model tuning just a
little bit more. Bayesian optimization is a tool that's, you know, pretty common in the deep learning
or neural network side, but you can use that for anything. There are a few packages in R that do
that, but they're not really well integrated overall with all the types of models. We provide
you tuning methods for Bayesian optimization that you could use for your boosted tree or for
a support vector machine or whatever you're going to do. And then, racing is an example we'll look
at in a little bit more detail. It's a way to do, like, really, really efficient grid search. So,
in grid search, you might come up with, for your tuning parameters, you might come up with a number
of different candidate, like, values of those tuning parameters. So, you might say, let's try
seven hidden units and 12 hidden units and two and so on. But you predefine them. And the problem
with grid search sometimes is you don't know if some of those choices you made about the candidate
parameters are any good until you're done with all the computations. And so, what racing does,
it's a dynamic way of doing that, is as you start to do the model tuning, it's starting to look at
the results as they happen and look at some tuning parameter combinations and say, oh, those are
never going to be the best. So, it does some statistics that, like, estimate the probability
that something will be the winner in this race. And it lets you do things very efficiently.
So, in this little animation we have here, the y-axis is 50 different model configurations for
a machine learning model. And the x-axis is a measurement of performance. And so, the blue dot,
if you can see it there near the top, is the current winner during each resample that we're
doing for our grid search. And as you can see, a lot of these candidate values got grayed out
and were eliminated on the next step. So, every time it does a resample, it's doing some analysis
to figure out what's good and what's bad. And it gets rid of the, you know, the bad stuff.
And so, really quickly, after like eight or ten resamples, you're down to just a handful of models
out of 50. And in this particular case, of all the models you could have fit, you actually only
ended up fitting about 7% of them. And if you're working with parallel processing, that's like
almost like a three-fold increase in efficiency. So, it took you a third of the time it would have
done with regular grid search. And if you weren't using parallel processing, it's a, you know,
nine times as fast as what you could have done with regular grid search. So, these are examples
of the types of things that we want to implement. Like, we're giving you APIs for them that are
pretty simple, let you control a lot of things, but it'll make it easier for you to go like further
and faster with your modeling.
This racing example is such a great one because it really highlights how TidyModels is extensible.
The package that provides that infrastructure is not a core TidyModels package, but an extension
package. So, the metaphor that we can think about here together is one of Legos. So, if you have
one beautiful Lego block here, we can admire it, look how well it's designed. But the reason why
Legos are fun to play with is that you can put them together. And you can put them together in
the way that meets your needs or fulfills your vision or is what it is that you want to, what
is that you want to build. And that is how TidyModels works. We showed a, you know, a handful
of hex stickers up before that were some core TidyModels packages and said, you know, this is
TidyModels. But if we ask the question, what else is TidyModels? There's another whole group of
packages that are for more specialized tasks. I'm just going to run through the ones on the top
there briefly. TextRecipes is a feature engineering extension package for text preprocessing, text
feature engineering. This is one of my favorite things to talk about. And TidyModels gives you
great tools to make you effective in building text models. The next one there is the Censored
package, which is for survival analysis. Our coworker Hannah is going to be giving a talk on
that in the next session, if you particularly work with survival analysis. The next one is
interesting, Stacks, because it builds on top of the whole TidyModels framework to actually take
multiple different kinds of models and stack them together or ensemble them so that you can get a,
like, squeeze that last bit of performance out of your data that you have, if that's something that
is important in your particular use case. The last one up there is Model Time. And I want to
highlight this because this one is a package that's not built by us, who work on the TidyModels team.
It's actually built by a member of our community. So this is built by Matt Dancho, who is here
somewhere today. And it highlights how TidyModels is extensible, not just by us, but also by you.
This is true whether you're interested in building some open source software for a new kind of model
or a new kind of resampling. It's also true, you know, just within your own organization.
You can build, for example, a custom metric based on your company's KPIs and use that to optimize
the models that you are training. Now, when we start talking about all these packages, one of the
things that we start to hear from people is a bit of discomfort with the fact that there are so many
packages. How do I know which one does what? How do I find them? And we want to acknowledge that, yeah,
there is this little bit of a learning process. And it's important to have tools in your tool belt
to be able to identify what functions come from what packages. However, we really want to emphasize
that this modularity makes all of our lives better. It makes our lives better as maintainers of the
packages, and it makes your lives better as users of the package. Smaller, more modular packages
can be released more frequently with smaller changes. We can more quickly fix bugs. So, it
makes our lives quite a bit better. It makes your lives better directly, not only because we're
doing a better job maintaining, but actually directly. And this is, I would say, most highlighted
when we are talking about model deployment. Let's say we trained a model using that racing method
that Max shared with us. We don't need any of that racing infrastructure when we go to deploy
our model. In fact, we don't need the tuning infrastructure at all. We need a subset of the
modeling software that is required to make a prediction. Our packages being modular allows you
to make smaller Docker images, have faster installation times, being able to have more
scalable models in production. So, so far, we've talked about how we can have a more ergonomic
modeling process. We have talked about how we can make you more effective in the models that you
build. And last, we want to talk about being safe, practicing safe machine learning. So, Max,
how does tidy models keep us safe? So, the whole idea of safety in modeling, you might be like,
well, what do you mean by safety or being safe? It turns out with, like, you know, complex machine
learning models and especially complex data, it's possible for you to do something horribly wrong
and not really know it until a really inopportune time. And I've made this confession several times
at different conferences and things like that. But, you know, in my first job, I had a project
that was, like, three quarters of the total R&D budget. You know, we were doing a bunch of
sophisticated machine learning with, like, a large number of predictors. And we thought we'd gotten
it to a good point. And my boss came by and he's like, how does it look? And I'm like, accuracy's,
like, you know, like, 90%. He's like, great. And then we got more samples in, and we missed them
all. And we did a lot of soul searching in the days after that and figured out some methodology
mistakes that we'd made that others make, just to be honest with you, quite often. And once we
figured that out and fixed it, we had more genuine estimates performance. So, there are times
in modeling where, especially if you're doing something complex, that you might accidentally
fool yourself into believing you have something that's really good, but you have something that's
actually not as good, and you won't figure that out until we get new data. And here's one of the
reasons is, going back to this part of our previous slides, is, you know, we have all the modeling
parts, and those are pretty well understood how to validate them and how to assess them. But very
often, before we get to the model, we might do something either simple or something really
complex to the data that involves something that's not, like, a deterministic, like, data
cleaning operation. We might be doing some statistical estimation, right? So, remember,
you're talking about the effect encoding or measuring the redundancies between predictors.
And so, it's really, really important, in some cases, that we handle that in the right way to
make sure that our statistics that tell us how well our model is doing take into account the
good and bad parts that might happen in that part of the system. So, let's think about, like, our
Spotify script. We have all these genres. Maybe we got rid of the redundancy, but maybe we want to
refine that feature set a little bit more before we give it to our model. And let's say we want to
do some, like, fancy supervised feature selection routine. So, we might want to pick, like, the top
10 variables to give to the model and pick those 10 because they're the most influential for the
outcome, like, for popularity, in this case. So, that's, like, a supervised feature selection
technique. And so, let's say, in our Spotify data, we're going to do a tenfold cross-validation to
validate our model. And we're going to use feature selection. So, actually, how many times do you
think we're going to run that feature selection? Are we going to run it once? Are we going to run
it 10 times? We could run it 11 times. Or we could run it some fractional amount of time because it
was taking so long that you just, like, hash, you know, you slam the escape key until it stopped
after three iterations. I want to see the results of these later on today. And it's not, like, a
trick question, but there's actually more than one of these could be true. And I'll talk about that
in a second. So, you know, here's the situation we're in, is we have some data. We have a list
of predictors. We want to enact some sort of feature selection routine to filter out some of
those predictors before we give it to our model. Let's just say, for kicks, we're doing ordinary
least squares with LM. And so, that produces some sort of fitted model. And that red box there is,
basically, the box that says, like, what am I estimating? What should I validate here?
And the way we have the diagram here treats the feature selection bit as if it were sort of
outside the model. So, if I would ask most people, like, where are we modeling in this diagram,
they would probably do what we show and just circle the actual technical model part of the
process. But in actuality, what you have to do is you have to do this. And in this previous slide,
this is what I did when I made that horrible mistake in my job, is I just selected the
features once, put them into the model, and there's a big sort of, like, circular argument
methodology-wise in doing that. And it gave me really bad results. What we want to do is this.
So, the answer to this is probably C, where for every one of those tenfold cross-validations,
you do the feature selection over and over again. And that may seem, like, excessive or it may take
a long time. But at the same time, you can't measure the effect of something that's not within
your sort of validation system. If it's outside of it, it might give you bad answers. So, the
answer is probably B, which is 10. But let's say this model was really, really good, and you liked
it, and compared to all the other things that you did, this is the one you want to take to
production. You want to put it in Vetiver and deploy it. Well, actually, what you would end up
doing is doing it an 11th time. Because to build the final model, you have to do the feature
selection on the entire dataset, hand that data over to LM, and run LM on the entire dataset.
So, really, the answer there is either B or C. But it's highlighting that there are some pitfalls
and gotchas that it's really easy for somebody like me, who studied this in graduate school and
did it for a living for a while, that you could actually make these mistakes. And unfortunately,
it happens quite a bit. So, you know, there's quite a few papers that talk about this and measure this,
but there's one that just came out. You know, we're bringing it up because their findings were
maybe, like, not great. So, leakage in this context is data leakage. And it's really,
where you're using the wrong data at maybe the wrong time to do some sort of calculation,
right? So, in my case, I was doing feature selection at the wrong time with data that
maybe I shouldn't have been using. And so, in this paper, what they do is they look at a lot
of different publications. And you can tell, based on their method sections, what they were doing.
There's a lot of situations where they're doing, like, the bad methodology. And in TinyModels,
what we want to do is, whether people know it or not, is we sort of want to, like, silently sort
of give you guardrails. So, if you follow the process of TinyModels and use a TinyModels syntax,
it's very, very, very difficult to do the wrong thing. So, just to give you an example of that,
here's another recipe. We're going to use a recipe extension package written by somebody
in the community called Recipe Selectors. And that has a recipe in it that will do, like,
let's say, like, a random forest variable importance score across your predictors.
And then you can select the top 10 or 15 or 30, whatever you want, you think you should do
of the most predictors and give that to, let's say, your linear regression model. But we don't
really know how many we should pick. So, if you look at that line there, it has an argument called
top p. So, it's like, how many predictors should I retain? We give that a value of tune. And that
value of tune marks it in TinyModels as being something that we want to optimize. We want to
tune that parameter. And so, then we can take our new recipe that built on our previous Spotify
recipe, put that in a workflow with a modeling function that says we're going to use just plain
old linear regression. And we could use the tune grid function to do, like, a grid search to find
a good value for how many of those predictors that we should use. And so, this is how you would do
the feature selection in TinyModels. Now, the thing is, the way we've set up resampling and
data splitting, the way we're combining our preprocessor with our model, it's nearly impossible
if you did accidentally do the wrong thing here and inappropriately validate or estimate things
from your data. Okay. So, we're really, without really saying that, we're sort of forcing that
methodology for users. That idea of making it hard to do the wrong thing leads us to wanting to talk
about one more metaphor here when we're here talking about, like, being on the road, being
on this journey as we drive down. This may not be 100% resonant to those of you who are visiting
here from outside the United States, maybe where you live somewhere where you have excellent
transportation. But I have always lived somewhere where I rely on a car. Like, I rely on a car to
get around. And the idea of locking my keys in my car is something that is kind of terrifying
because it's, you're like, oh, no, what do I do now? I'm stuck somewhere. So, here together, let's
answer another poll. So, when was the last time that you locked your keys in your car? Was it
pretty recently? Was it a long time ago? Have you never done this? Max, when was the last time you
locked your keys in your car? I would pick D, about 10 years ago. Yeah. I would pick D, too. It was, like,
10 or 15 years ago was the last time that I locked my keys in my car. And I wouldn't be surprised if
a bunch of people here choose that they have never locked their keys in their car. And I don't think
it's because they're that much more responsible or good at handling keys than we are, but rather
that you're quite a bit younger than Max and I are. Because the thing is, the car that I have now,
it's really hard to lock my keys in my car now. The car itself is built in such a way that it
protects against common failure modes. So, this is how Tidy Models is built. It is built to protect
you against these common pitfalls, potholes, that are on your road to developing and deploying
your model. So, the idea of T's is like an immediately painful problem. And some problems
that you run into in machine learning are like that. One I might suggest here would be the model
deployment. You know, you're like, oh, I can't get it. It fails every time I try to, like, push it to
wherever I'm going. There are other kinds of problems, though, that are not obvious until later.
So, the metaphor we might use here would be not filling your car up with gas and just driving
along. And because you didn't make that choice at the last exit that had gas, you end up running
out of gas later. Tidy Models also protects you against problems like that, that you make some
decision during your modeling process, and it may not come to bite you until you're predicting on
new data. So, as we come up and start to wrap up here, we want to share a thought from my friend
and co-author, Dave Robinson, who started using Tidy Models about a year ago and wrote a blog
post reflecting on his experience. So, he said that he, like us, sometimes hears some resistance
to the idea of how Tidy Models works, that it makes it too easy. You know, people, you're not
really thinking about what it is that you're doing. But, like Dave, we think this is
entirely backwards. This is entirely backwards. We want to protect you as a modeling practitioner
from making silent but bad choices so that you don't have to worry and stress about those things,
and you can focus on the scientific and statistical questions that are the reason why you're training
a model in the first place. So, Max, here we are. What does this mean?
Well, I think it means that we're at the point with Tidy Models where it's mature enough.
The syntax is pretty much solid. No, like, super major changes we're going to be doing in a minute
now that would affect users. You may have noticed a flurry of CRAN submissions where we've revved
everything to 1.0. So, I think the message we want to get across to you is, you know, it's ready for
your day-to-day work. Like, if I were working in my previous job, I would be using this, you know,
to finish projects and do things on time. You know, it's at that point where we really feel
confident that you can use it and depend on it in your day-to-day work. Now, that doesn't mean
things like, yeah, the unit test pass, we're good, or it passes, you know, our command check or
something like that. You know, we want to build a good system. We want you to be able to use it,
and we want to make sure it works. But we also want you to learn it if you've never seen it
before. We don't just want you to be like, you know, read the man page. So, you know, at the very
beginning of the pandemic, what we did was we spent a lot of time, like, really writing a lot
of good documentation. So, tinymodels.org is a website that has some really good content on it.
You can see there's a section there for getting started. There's a great sequence of articles
that will introduce you to TinyModels, show you how to use it. There's a lot of articles about,
like, if you want to have an example of, like, Bayesian optimization or bootstrapping to compute
confidence intervals and things like that. That's all on tinymodels.org. There's quite
a lot of content there. In addition to that, you may have seen the other night that Julie and I
finished writing a book on TinyModels from O'Reilly. They should be printing them now.
Hopefully, we'll get copies in the next week or two. The website's down there if you want to look
at the bookend version. So, check that out. It's a really good way for, like, longer form
documentation to learn about TinyModels. So, we think it's not only ready for you, but we think
we have lots and lots of good materials publicly available for you to learn it and interact with
it. So, I think the last things we want to say are thank you. Thank you for being here. Thank
you if you're in the room. Thank you if you're remote. We appreciate you coming. We also want
to thank our teams. We want to thank the rest of the TinyModels team, Simon, Hannah, Emil, and
Davis. The Vetiver team's excellent. Michael and Isabel. It's great having people from a Python
background. It's really, like, enriching our, like, perspectives on, like, how we do things in R
and modeling and deployment in general. And then there's a lot of other people that have had, like,
a really, really big impact on our work, whether it's through, like, helping us design software or
giving us feedback or helping us make training materials. So, we have a great, great team
inside of Posit and outside of Posit. See what I just did? The thing we really want to do also
is to really, really thank all the people who have contributed since this started in, like,
2017. So, we just want to, like, call them out in our own sort of special way.
We don't have to wait for that. So, thank you for coming. Thank you.
Thanks, Max. Thanks, Julia. We've now got time for some questions. And remember,
go to Slido if you want to ask your questions. I do not see any questions there yet. So,
I will make a chitchat with Julia and Max until some... Okay, we're getting some questions rolling
and I'll still make a little chitchat. One thing I forgot to mention in my intro is that
Max and Julia have a book, Tidy Modeling with R, coming out very soon with O'Reilly. Unfortunately,
not in time to make it for this conference, but it should be out in the very near future.
Yes. And, of course, you can read it online for free. Do you have any, like,
iTunes albums coming out at some point? SoundCloud.
Our SoundCloud. We'll just drop our SoundCloud.
It's just yelling at our keyboards while we do programming.
That's right. Okay. So, first question. Are you planning to integrate Tidy Models with
other data structures like time series or arrays for images, text, or video?
I'll answer first and then you can go. So, one of the things that is especially
applicable in text data is a characteristic of it is that it is really sparse. And so,
one thing that we have did, I've already integrated, is the ability to
internally, within that loop that we talked about, pass data as a sparse matrix to models
that can handle it and thus train, tune more effectively. So, this is something that we
definitely think about and are interested in doing more of. Do you want to add more on
survival analysis? Yeah. So, for time series, we've mentioned
Matt Dantro's work. He's here and has, like, a whole bunch of packages that handle that.
A lot of times what we work on is mostly governed by, like, what we know about. And,
honestly, I don't think any of us are, like, expert at time series. So, Matt's stuff covers
all that, I think, really, really well. We're doing more with survival data. We'll
be more widely integrated with, like, Tune and things like that, hopefully by the end of the
year. We're always on the lookout, especially for recipes, in terms of, like, specialized things
that we can do. Like, I'm not making any promises, but I used to work with a lot of, like,
spectrometry data, and I don't do that anymore. But, in my mind, like, that's the kind of data
would be great for, like, a recipes package. Like, specialized recipes for that type of data,
because they have, like, somewhat unique data structures and things they do to it. So,
I think as time goes on, you know, we want to find packages that satisfy more niche,
not markets, but, you know, niche set of users that would be, like, really,
you know, our framework would do a really good job of capturing.
So.
Julia, could you comment on how Bedifer compares and contrasts with MLflow?
Sure. I would say that MLflow more highly prioritizes model development in having
opinionated requirements on how you develop your model. It then does some similar things in that
it provides a way for you to deploy your model. One thing that is different about Bedifer is that
it is more flexible in how you train your model, how you tune your model. If you come from a more
statistical background, you're going to be more comfortable with using your solid statistical
approaches to training your model, and then what Bedifer does is it comes in at that point,
once your model is trained. So, I'd highlight that as a main difference between
the approach of MLflow and the approach of Bedifer.
Max, how would a newcomer kind of get started with tidy models, or do you think this is
something that's only suitable for seasoned data scientists?
No, it's definitely, I think, relevant for anybody. You know, it's a little bit more
verbose than things like Carrot. Like, you might end up writing a few more lines of code,
but its simplicity, in a way, is a lot more, it's a lot lower than, let's say, Carrot,
because, you know, you don't have, you know, for the one thing you want to do,
you don't have, like, 75 options to sort through. So, I think it's really good for
newcomers, especially if you don't have, you know, we've shown, like, UMAP and racing and
things like that. We don't want to make it seem like you can't just, like, fit your LM model to
whatever equivalent, like, MT cards or something you have that's, like, not terribly complex.
So, you know, you can use it for that, you can use it, it's not necessarily, like,
optimized for inferential models, but we have a lot of things that you can use for that. For
example, like, multi-level models, like, hierarchical Bayesian models and mixed models,
we have infrastructure for that. It's, you know, the scope of it is a lot wider than maybe what
we demonstrated here. But, yeah, it's pretty much usable for, like, simple things for newcomers,
and then it lets you do more and more as you go on. So, definitely, if you're new,
I'd start off with, like, the get started part of tidymodels.org, and that'll probably do a good
job of, like, sort of leveling you up there. For both of you, any plans to integrate tidy
models with causal inference? With what? Causal inference. Causal inference. Casual inference.
Yeah, yeah. Just casual. Just casual. This is actually something, you know,
of all the workshops that we just had the two days, that's the one I would have liked to have
gone to the most if I wasn't teaching one. So, I don't know. Maybe we'll learn about it,
and then start. I don't know. What do you think? So, I'd like to. I was saying the same thing at
the book signing. I'd, you know, oh, what workshop do you go to? And they say, oh, causal interest.
I'm like, are those slides on GitHub? Again, it's, like, you know, the really great thing about this
job is, like, if we don't, you know, if there's, like, a field that we're not really intimately
acquainted with, we can take the time and learn that, right? And so, like, it's something I've
always wanted to learn more about. I would very much like to. There's a lot of methods,
especially, strangely, on the machine learning side that have, like, causal versions of certain
models. So, it definitely piques my interest. I don't know much about it, but I could definitely
see us doing that. Maybe not this year, but. And also, you know, we have a user survey that we make
about once a year. So, we put things on there and let people vote. We're not really bound to those
results, but it really, in the past, has really drived some of our development. So, that's also
a way, if you want to suggest some things, to do it when we do the next user survey.
I think that's all the time we have for questions now. If you have other questions,
do not ask them of Max, because he is leaving to get married.
You can ask him on Discord. I'll check Discord, like, tomorrow, maybe. Maybe.
So, thanks, Max. Thanks, Julia. And please, enjoy the rest of the conference.